in this video we're going to talk about
how to lead without managing my name is
Joe Hudson I'm a former venture
capitalist and I'm now an executive
coach to some of the most notable names
in Silicon Valley there's lots of ways
that you can lead without any management
whatsoever and we're going to talk a
little bit at the end of the video about
the mindset that enables that but before
we go there let's just talk about three
techniques that are really implementable
that you can use right away the first is
to say what you want and say it cleanly
so what you see is that people who are
leading organizations often times don't
say what they want for a number of
reasons such as they feel selfish or
because they think that people will be
upset or because they were a rebel when
they were young and they don't think
anybody wants to be told what to do and
so all of that stuff gets in the way of
them asking for what they want the
interesting thing about being a leader
of an organization is that your wants
your specific wants not everybody else's
are the best aligned wants to the wants
of the organization it doesn't mean that
everybody else's wants aren't important
but your wants are the most important
wants because they are the only ones
that see the entire organization the
other reason that telling people what
you want makes it so that you don't have
to manage things is because they feel
safe if you're leading an
organization and people don't know what
you want then they feel things like oh
my gosh who's leading the organization
or they feel things like I don't know if
I'm doing a good job or they don't know
if they're in alignment or not in
alignment and so without cleanly saying
what you want it's very hard for anybody
to feel like they know what they're
doing or that they're doing the right
thing so now I keep on using this word
cleanly like what do you mean cleanly
ask for what you want if you ask for
what you want in a way that you're
scared that you're going to be attacked
often times you're going to say it in a
very hard way and the more hard you are
in the way that you ask for what you
want the less likely somebody's going to
be able to give it to you or want to
give it to you also if you ask for it
like oh my gosh you're never going to
want to do this for me even the hand
motion of oh you're never going to want
to do this is a no it's like don't don't
give me what you want so asking for what
you want is just a very clean process
they have the choice to say yes or no
and when you start saying this is what
you want you don't have to manage people
everybody and I mean everybody wants to
be a part of a working team a functional
team nobody's like hey is your team
dysfunctional sign me up hire me that's
what I want nobody says that and so
knowing what you want helps them be in a
functional team so one of the executives
I was working with got really good at
asking for what she wanted anytime she
felt any discomfort she said oh this is
what I want she was also exceptionally
good at being supportive of other people
she was constantly making sure that the
people that she had working with her had
the support they needed to do a great
job and as her company was growing they
had a cash shortage they didn't have
enough money to pay everybody and
everybody stuck around and worked
without pay for a little while they had
so much loyalty to this leader so think
about it like this if people are willing
to work without pay how much do you
really need to manage
them so let's get into the second thing
speaking to the problem as soon as you
can without solving it is a great way to
lead without managing I can't tell you
how many leaders I have worked with
where we've dug in and really found out
that one of the things that drives them
is that they need to be valuable even
the dowst 2,000 years ago talked about
leaders who nobody knew was there and
how they were the best leaders and
basically what they're saying is that
your ego is not in the game not the ego
of it has to be my way not the ego of oh
I'm necessary and the way to do that is
if there's something that doesn't feel
right you immediately bring it up as
quickly as you can oh that doesn't feel
right you don't have to do anything else
you think you do you think you have to
solve a problem but you don't and then
somebody eventually is going to say yeah
it doesn't feel right to me either or
they're going to say oh what doesn't
feel right about it and a discussion is
going to ensue if you move to solve the
problem then what you're doing is you're
telling everybody that they can't solve
the problem that they're not capable
that you're necessary and maybe you need
to say oh this is the criteria of the
solution this is how we know we have a
good solution so you make sure that your
standards are kept but you don't
actually ever have to solve the problem
in fact it's the solutions that people
come up with that they're most likely to
be aligned around that they're most
likely to put energy into that they're
going to feel inspired to execute on and
this works in companies and it also
works with kids kids so with my children
for instance whenever we have a problem
like I notice that I'm nagging I'm like
H that doesn't feel right and so I'll
say to my kids hey I'm nagging and that
feels like crap I don't want to
nag and they'll be like yeah I don't
want you to nag either okay cool how do
we make sure that the house gets cleaned
without me
nagging and then they come up with a
solution that works for them that's easy
for me cuz they know I don't want to nag
they know it doesn't feel good
we can all acknowledge the thing that
doesn't feel good and then I'm
empowering my children to make the world
that they want to make and it's just as
easy as that and if I can do that with
teenagers surely you can do it with
people who you've employed or people
that you work with and if you can't then
let's talk about number three because
number three is only work with great
people so here's the thing about
everybody we all want to work on great
teams if you think about the moment that
you are happiest working in a team it's
probably the most fun functional team
that you were ever a part of whether it
was a sports team or whether it was
something that you were doing for your
work but working in teams if you want to
work in teams you want to work in
functional teams you want to win you
want to feel like you're doing important
stuff you want to feel a sense of
purpose you want to feel that sense of
cohesion that you have with a team
anybody who's really good is going to
want to work with those teams so some
people have a high functioning team that
looks like X and some people have a high
functioning team that looks like y your
high functioning team is going to look
the way way that only your team can look
and so there are going to be great
people that maybe can't fit into your
team that can fit into other teams so
it's not ever a value judgment of you're
good or you're bad it's not you against
the employee or you against a team
member it's is it a match or is it not a
match and when you find that match you
know it and you know it quickly but
here's the deal anybody who's working
with you who is not performing like that
it doesn't feel good to them either they
don't want that nobody wants to be the
person who is like I am the person that
nobody can rely on I'm the person that
everybody doesn't like on the team no
nobody wants that usually you can find a
solution whether it's a different place
on the team or helping them get to a new
team or whatever it is that you want to
do but at the end of the day that's not
your job your job is to take care of the
team it's not to care for the individual
everybody else is caring for individuals
your job care for the team and the best
way to do that is make sure that all of
your teammates have great people to work
with so now that we've gone over the
three things that can help you lead
without managing let's take a look at
the perspective that you hold that makes
all of that far more easy to do it's not
about keeping the perspective on you
it's about keeping the perspective on
the team so you say what you want
because that's what the team
needs you hire great people because
that's what the team wants that's how
the team thrives and you're speaking to
the problem without solving it because
that's how you empower the team and when
you have that attitude people care for
you that's how it works when you are
cared for you care for others more
easily when you care for the team they
care for you they care for the team far
more
easily okay if you like the content
Please Subscribe if you want other
content let us know in the comments what
you want us to talk about and if you
want to watch the next video it's a good
one
[Music]